---
layout: post
title:  "Love Languages of Dance"
---
There is a relatively well known book called [The 5 Love Languages].  It's a
relationships book about how people feel and express their love for other
people.  The basic idea is that people in relationships may be expressing
their love for their partner in a way that the partner doesn't like to
receive.

Recently, [The Dancing Grapevine](http://www.danceplace.com/grapevine) posted
an article called [The Love Languages of Dance](
http://www.danceplace.com/grapevine/the-love-languages-of-dance/).  The author
makes an excellent analogy between relationships and dances, which sometimes
feel like mini relationships anyhow.

In the same way that the love languages are: Words of Affirmation, Acts of
Service, Receiving Gifts, Quality Time and Physical Touch, the love
languages of dance are: Energy, Playfulness, Deep Connection, Challenge,
Expression and Creativity.

For the longest time, it's really puzzled me why certain people like dancing
with other people.  There are many people who I can recognize as objectively
good who I just don't like dancing with.  There are many people who are
objectively good who don't like dancing with me.

I am definitely a connection / musicality person; I'm probably most at home
doing micro-fusion, but for practical reasons West Coast Swing is my main
dance these days.  I really like connection a lot and like to do interesting
things with it and to test its limits.  That also means that I don't usually
do much silly stuff, or big lifts and dips.

The love languages of dance list is probably not complete, but the underlying
message is a great one: it's worth trying to understand what the other person
wants from a dance.  It might even be worth it to try to give them what they
want, even if it's not directly apprealing to you.
